# XSLT-to-sort-Quicktext-XML
An XSLT file to sort Quicktext XML 

Quicktext is an extremely useful extension for the Thunderbird email client that allows you to create and quickly insert re-usable text blocks into emails. It provides a wide range of functionality, including variables, scripts and attachments, but one feature that it does not have as of 01.01.2019 is the ability to sort the templates. If you have a lot of templates, this can make it hard to find the one you need quickly.

This XSLT file is an attempt to solve that problem using a workaround. You can export your templates as XML, sort them using this XSLT, and then re-import them back into the extension.

Disclaimer: I'm not an expert for XSLT, so there are probably more elegant ways to code this. It gets the job done for me, but I can't guarantee it will work for you. This process does NOT sort the order of the categories or folders that contain the templates. It only sorts the order of the templates within those categories.

## How to use this XSLT file on Windows
1. Download msxsl.exe from https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=21714
1. Export the Quicktext templates you want to sort as input.xml.
1. Open input.xml with Notepad and save as "UTF-8".
1. Download sort.xsl and sort.bat from this repository
1. Place all files (sort.xslt, sort.bat, msxsl.exe and input.xml) in the same folder
1. Run sort.bat. This should create a new file called output.xml. If this fails, try running "msxsl.exe input.xml sort.xslt -o output.xml" from a command prompt. This will allow you to see any error messages generated by msxsl.exe.
1. Before importing the sorted XML file, delete the unsorted templates from Quicktext using the extension's UI to avoid having duplicates after the import process.
1. Import the output.xml file into Quicktext
1. Verify that your templates have not been corrupted by the process  before deleting your working files.
